#ABSTRACT

In this study, our aim is to mimic object picking application with robotic arm from shelves in a warehouse environment, and our goal is to develop a robust, low-cost, and practical robotic arm system for that purpose. The designed robotic arm correctly picks the desired items from shelf  locations and place them into desired bins. Fully autonomous robotic arm operation is accomplished using developed algorithms and Arduino microcontroller. The developed system is tested and evaluated in terms of (i) number of items picked-and-placed correctly, and (ii) increase in the number of objects picked-placed under a certain desired time. For performance evaluations, object weight/size capability results, results of maximum load, and required force results are presented.
Robot manipulator is an essential motion subsystem component of robotic system for positioning, orientating object so that robot can perform useful task. The main objectives of this project are to design and implement a 4-DOF pick and place robotic arm. This project can be self-operational in controlling, stating with simple tasks such as gripping, lifting, placing and releasing. In this project, the focus is on 4-DOF articulated arm. Articulated arm consists of revolute joints that allowed angular movement between adjacent joint. Four servo motors were used in this project to perform four degree of freedom (4-DOF). There are numerous dimensions over which robotic arms can be evaluated, such as torque, payload, speed, range, repeatability and cost, to name a few. Robot manipulators are designed to execute required movements. Their controller design is equally important. The robot arm is controlled by a serial servo controller circuit board. The controller used for servo motor actuation is at mega 15 development board.
Robots are springing up everywhere like mushrooms having found a steady hold in the production industry. Not only do they increase the productivity and efficiency of the system, but they also improve the accuracy and the uniformity of the products. They are a sign of an ever developing technology. One of the most important indications would be the industrial pick and place robot. The main objectives of this project are to design and implement a 4-DOF pick and place robotic arm. This project can be operational in controlling, stating with simple tasks such as gripping, lifting, placing and releasing.


#CONCLUSION

 In this project, we demonstrated the successful utilization of inverse kinematic solutions for a      4-degree-of-freedom serial robot, employing optimization algorithms in working together with computer vision techniques. By extracting coordinate points from the vision system, we were able to upload them to Arduino software to accurately locate objects of various colours, such as red, blue, and green. This information facilitated precise movement of the robotic arm to desired locations, showcasing the practical application of advanced technologies in robotic manipulation tasks. Through this project, we have not only achieved a seamless integration of optimization and vision methodologies but also illustrated their efficacy in enhancing the functionality and adaptability of robotic systems in real-world scenarios.
Inverse kinematic solution of robot have obtained for different task space locations and improved the accuracy of the movement of the arm to the desired location with the precision of +/- 0.2 mm.
The use of vision sensors and camera’s to track the position and orientation of the end effector has enabled robot’s to perform complex tasks in unstructured environments, enabling safer and faster production, increased precision and repeatability of task’s, and more effective use of resources
